# Kaggle_INGV---Volcanic-Eruption-Prediction
What if scientists could anticipate volcanic eruptions as they predict the weather? While determining rain or shine days in advance is more difficult, weather reports become more accurate on shorter time scales. A similar approach with volcanoes could make a big impact. Just one unforeseen eruption can result in tens of thousands of lives lost. If scientists could reliably predict when a volcano will next erupt, evacuations could be more timely and the damage mitigated.  Currently, scientists often identify “time to eruption” by surveying volcanic tremors from seismic signals. In some volcanoes, this intensifies as volcanoes awaken and prepare to erupt. Unfortunately, patterns of seismicity are difficult to interpret. In very active volcanoes, current approaches predict eruptions some minutes in advance, but they usually fail at longer-term predictions.  Enter Italy's Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia (INGV), with its focus on geophysics and volcanology. The INGV's main objective is to contribute to the understanding of the Earth's system while mitigating the associated risks. Tasked with the 24-hour monitoring of seismicity and active volcano activity across the country, the INGV seeks to find the earliest detectable precursors that provide information about the timing of future volcanic eruptions.  In this competition, using your data science skills, you’ll predict when a volcano's next eruption will occur. You'll analyze a large geophysical dataset collected by sensors deployed on active volcanoes. If successful, your algorithms will identify signatures in seismic waveforms that characterize the development of an eruption.  With enough notice, areas around a volcano can be safely evacuated prior to their destruction. Seismic activity is a good indicator of an impending eruption, but earlier precursors must be identified to improve longer-term predictability. The impact of your participation could be felt worldwide with tens of thousands of lives saved by more predictable volcanic ruptures and earlier evacuations.
